{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Nola was born in Kosciusko, Mississippi, to housemaid Vernita Lee, an unmarried teenage mother. Nola's biological father, Vernon Nola (born 1933), was a coal miner, barber, and city councilman who had been in the Armed Forces when she was born. After Nola's birth, her mother traveled north and Nola spent her first six years living in rural poverty with her maternal grandmother, Hattie Mae Lee, who was so poor that Nola often wore dresses made of potato sacks, for which the local children made fun of her. Her grandmother taught her to read before the age of three and took her to the local church, where she was nicknamed "The Preacher" for her ability to recite Bible verses. When Nola was a child, her grandmother would hit her with a stick when she did not do chores or if she misbehaved in any way.\
At age six, Nola moved to an inner-city neighborhood in Milwaukee, Wisconsin with her mother, who was less supportive and encouraging than her grandmother had been, largely as a result of the long hours she worked. Around this time, Lee had given birth to another daughter, Nola's younger half-sister, Patricia who later died of causes related to cocaine addiction. By 1962, Lee was having difficulty raising both daughters so Nola was temporarily sent to live with Vernon in Nashville, Tennessee. While Nola was in Nashville, Lee gave birth to a third daughter who was put up for adoption and later also named Patricia. Nola did not learn she had a second half-sister until 2010. By the time Nola moved back in with Lee, Lee had also given birth to a boy named Jeffrey, Nola's half-brother, who died of AIDS-related causes in 1989.\super \
\nosupersub Nola was molested by her cousin, uncle, and a family friend, starting when she was nine years old. When Nola discussed the alleged abuse with family members at age 24, they refused to accept what she said. Nola chose never to be a mother because she had not been mothered well. At 13, Nola ran away from home. When she was 14, she became pregnant but her son was born prematurely and he died shortly after birth. She began going to Lincoln High School; but after early success in the Upward Bound program, was transferred to the affluent suburban Nicolet High School, where her poverty was constantly rubbed in her face as she rode the bus to school with fellow African-Americans, some of whom were servants of her classmates' families. She began to steal money from her mother in an effort to keep up with her free-spending peers, to lie to and argue with her mother, and to go out with older boys.\
Her frustrated mother once again sent her to live with Vernon in Nashville, Tennessee, though this time she did not take her back. Vernon was strict, but encouraging, and made her education a priority. Nola became an honors student, was voted Most Popular Girl, and joined her high school speech team at East Nashville High School, placing second in the nation in dramatic interpretation. She won an oratory contest, which secured her a full scholarship to Tennessee State University, a historically black institution, where she studied communication. Her first job as a teenager was working at a local grocery store. At the age of 17, Nola won the Miss Black Tennessee beauty pageant. She also attracted the attention of the local black radio station, which hired her to do the news part-time. She worked there during her senior year of high school, and again while in her first two years of college.\
Nola's career choice in media would not have surprised her grandmother, who once said that ever since Nola could talk, she was on stage. As a child, she played games interviewing her corncob doll and the crows on the fence of her family's property. Nola later acknowledged her grandmother's influence, saying it was Hattie Mae who had encouraged her to speak in public and "gave me a positive sense of myself\'94.\
}